Docs: Update reference for the extensions (#954)
grafana/plugin-tools: docusaurus/docs/tutorials/ui-extensions/exposed-components.md

---
id: exposed-components

> title: Exposed components

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Expose a component
```

Reviewer: We should probably split into exposing and using

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/954/commits/999f5a2263de23d9f7fd41e5f47d07843fc71ed7.

description: Share functionality between plugins with exposed components
keywords:
  - grafana
  - plugins
  - plugin
  - extensions
  - ui-extensions
sidebar_position: 30
---

> Exposed components are a way to share functionality between plugins.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Exposing components makes it possible to easily share functionality between different plugins. Once a plugin has exposed a component, it can be used by any number of app plugins without any further action from the component provider.
```

## Exposing a component from an app plugin

```tsx
import pluginJson from './plugin.json';

export const plugin = new AppPlugin()
  // You can also expose multiple components from the same app plugin
  .exposeComponent({
    // Important!
    // The `id` should always be prefixed with your plugin id, otherwise it won't be exposed.
    id: `${pluginJson.id}/reusable-component`,
    title: 'Reusable component',
    description: 'A component that can be reused by other app plugins.',
    component: ({ name }: { name: string }) => (
      <div>Hello {name}!</div>
    )
  })
```

> ## Using an exposed component

Reviewer: Move to new page

Title: Use an exposed component

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/954/commits/999f5a2263de23d9f7fd41e5f47d07843fc71ed7.

```tsx
import { usePluginComponent } from '@grafana/runtime';

export const MyComponent = () => {
  const { component: Component, isLoading } = usePluginComponent('myorg-basic-app/reusable-component');

  return (
    <>
      <div>My component</div>
      { isLoading ? "Loading..." : <Component name="John" /> }
    </>
  )
}
```

## Best practices

- **Wrap your component with providers** - if you want to access any plugin specific state in your component make sure to wrap it with the necessary React context providers (e.g. for Redux) 

> ## Access plugin meta information in an exposed component

Reviewer: Move to new page

Author: Fixed in https://github.com/grafana/plugin-tools/pull/954/commits/999f5a2263de23d9f7fd41e5f47d07843fc71ed7.
